it's not a product game it's a data game
in technology everything changes very
fast understanding the past is cool what
predicting the future is magical
we are the most progressive marketing
software company in the world the
concept now is creating a website per
person creating a mobile app per person
currently we are reaching 25 of the
world's internet users
we wanted to create something which has
a high impact we want to show whole
world that breakthrough product
companies can be also created outside of
silicon valley we are hungry for success
once you build the right culture with
the right people
i think you are unstoppable
you need to work harder you need to push
harder you need to read more you need to
sleep one hour less doing something much
more meaningful than myself this is my
self accusation
[Music]
let me introduce myself before starting
this is handy one of the co-founders and
ceo of insider
insider is offering insiders providing a
platform for individualized
cross-channel customer experiences
we have clients from 26 different
countries
80 percent of those clients are
enterprise
and we have 800 people from 41 different
nationalities
so it's pretty much a global product
company and today
i'm going to talk about the mistakes
we have also made
not only one time a couple of times
during our
revenue growth story
so starting with the first one
uh and the first before talking about
the first mistake which is going to be
an interesting one i think it will be
important to rewind with the flow so
what is the flow for the revenue growth
we hire our sales people
and then we try to enable them
and after enabling selling starts and
this is actually how growth occurs this
is the
generic and at the same time basic flow
of the revenue organization
but
during the journey of the growth we do a
lot of mistakes
and very interestingly
the first mistake is
not accepting that we are mistaken
as founders we are pretty much strong
opinionated people
and it's sometimes hard to accept our
mistakes but
listening people around talking about
the metrics and reviewing them time to
time and usually
and hearing people around from the
organization from
actually external parties will be
important to understand and figure out
our mistakes so
we should be accepting that we might
make mistakes time to time
and i think second mistake
will be about
hiding with urgency
i think this is an important point to
remember because most of the time we
know that the investors are expecting
for growth
and all those stakeholders and
organization itself is pretty much like
impressed or driven by growth and
markets are still buying for the growth
even in this macro economy fluctuated
environment
and this is why sometimes while we are
hiring our sales team
we are in urgency
and this urgency might cause couple of
mistakes
because
we have a tendency to sometimes hire
people
who may not be good at selling our
products
being able to sell this product of adobe
or salesforce type companies doesn't
mean that they can be also successful
sales people in your own organization
because every single product is
different
and at the same time
selling a product in a well-known
company is pretty much different than
selling in a startup or scale-up company
who is trying to be a global one
so
when you are hiring a salesperson when
you are hiring a kota carriage
please do the reference check by
yourself it is also so important
don't leave it to your hr department
don't leave it to anyone else just pick
up the call and call this person even
you can run a
role play when you are hiring these safe
people because don't forget that if they
cannot sell you
they cannot sell also today to your
customers
so this role play and having the
reference check of those sales people is
very important please call the
you know previous company and the
manager of these salespeople in this
previous company and please ask him or
her that whether this person was hitting
their quotas in the in this company in
his old company it's very important to
check
and
the another mistake which can be called
as the third one
is basically about
hiding non-competitive sales
representatives what does it mean
selling is not easy it looks like easy
time to time maybe it's easier for a
well-known product but it's not that
easy if you're in a very competitive
environment
and at the end of the day sales itself
is already very competitive yes it's a
growing industry for sure at the same
time it has a huge potential
but it is so competitive
so and we all know that no product is
perfect in sas most of the sales
companies are new just evolving
themselves so in that case when you hire
a sales representative or salespeople
if they are coming from a
non-competitive background
trust me it's not going to work
of course i don't want to say anything
negative about big for example marketing
clouds but i have seen and i have hired
many salespeople from very big
organizations who don't show the same
who don't who cannot show the passion
and
who cannot show this uh you know
struggle than you are when they are
selling doing sales in your own
organization because again selling a
vulnerable product relatively easy
selling in a scale-up or startup is a
different story different game they need
to be go-getters they need to get used
to this struggle and it's a different
game different play
so the other mistake is
and again
as insiders needed all of them
i as a ceo did many of those mistakes
same for my cro
and the mistake 4
can be counted as
lack of enablement
if any of you guys
has a sales company which already
exceeded
let's say
five to ten million dollars of error and
if you don't have the sales enablement
team yet
then you are missing a lot
what does it mean
in the very first days of your sales
organization or for your company you
probably teach the sales people from
your own experience which might be
enough that time but that's not enough
after five million years of era that's
not enough after 10 million dollars of
error you need to support them you need
to have like special presentations you
need to have you know
training special trainings for those
sales people
they need to know how to act when they
are handling your objections
they need to know how to adapt
themselves to enterprise sales or media
enterprise sales
and it's a never-ending story you don't
train them once you you do it like on a
frequent basis for example it's insiders
we have our sales university run by our
sales team run by our sales enablement
team
every week and every week
they actually go through the
documentations they actually go through
for example
presentation very specific to vertical
businesses
and again it should be done continuously
and it's not like only one shot game
and
once you do that once you have a strong
enablement team
then
ramp up times will be short
in sas if it's like enterprise product
generally we are talking about six to
nine months
and you can observe that it's going to
become like maybe three months which is
going to be a big you know positive
change for your sales cycle
and the establish establishment of the
sales enablement team will be a key
function for your salespeople so they
are going to know the answers they are
going to know more answers about the
product how to sell a specific vertical
and this team shouldn't be like a couple
of people they should be supporting our
salespeople on the way
so
the fifth mistake
the fifth mistake is i think
about being a
iron man or not being an island man or
assuming that your representatives
represents representatives are iron man
they are not
and there's a very changing or rapidly
changing environment outside the
competition flows the new products like
air ice and in that case
there are too many struggles in sas
people lives so
you need to support them
there are rfps joined by different uh
competitors and there are new maybe
contract processes packaging pricing
and your sales representatives should be
focusing on what they do
and they should be focusing on the decks
they should be focusing on the packaging
they should be focusing on the how to do
objection ending they should be focusing
on how to compete with a new competitor
so there are already too many fights in
their lives
and don't imagine that don't assume that
they are iron men who can do who can do
it all at the same time so this is why
with the sales operations who can
support the salespeople about the
contracts about the you know
wholesale cycle and purchase process
with the deal desk or marketing type
functions
you need to be able to support your
sales representatives because they are
not iron mans at the end of today and
this is going to ena this is going to
provide enablement stronger ena movement
for your says people
sometimes we expect really much from our
sales representatives
they have sometimes many product
features they have to learn
they need to understand the dynamics of
different verticals if you are not by
the way having different sales
representatives for different verticals
so in that case we should be helping
them more to enable themselves also with
the support of the different
functionalities
so after talking about the ironmans
let's talk about mistake six
which is about
losing control over the size pipeline i
think
i feel like we can talk about this sales
pipeline and metrics like until the
morning why
it's all about having control over your
sales pipeline
and most of time people are pretty much
you know
obsessed about the outputs
if you ask a sales founder
what is the most important metric for
you for your sales pipeline or sales
like cycle if they are going to answer
like of course mrr etc
it's not right
what is what are the things that causes
mr
how many leads they have generated in a
month or even in a week
or what about the forecast accuracy what
is the forecast it's revenue in a month
and what is the realization
and then we can talk about the mirage
so
losing the uh control over sales
pipeline
meaning that
they don't know how many leads they have
generated and how much how many leads
they should generate to reach their
targets
if the they if they don't have a control
on the forecast accuracy then they don't
know how much revenue they are going to
bring by the end of the month
and
we should be all acknowledged about this
every single sales people has a control
over their pipeline is and they should
be on top of their pipeline and everyone
in the sales organization should be
pretty much knowledgeable about this
and number by number by the way i'm not
talking about just general sense i'm
talking about really being into the
numbers
and they should know where they stand in
terms of the competitors every deal if
you can't get an answer
from a sales representative
for a question like this
how many deals you lost over the six
months uh you know against a competitor
if they don't have the answer then
there's a mistake so they should have a
control over the pipelines by the way
most of the time
people claims that if you are hiring a
sales manager or sales director you
should only hire a dashboard guy that's
right by the way
your sales directors or managers who are
going to manage your sales team
shouldn't be only a dashboard guy
because they should have a positive
contribution on the sales processes if
there is like enterprise relationship
that they need to manage then they
should do that they should have
different
value ads for the sales journey however
every sales director every sales manager
should be pretty much knowledgeable
about all the metrics in the sales
pipeline
and you should be going through this
every everything every week i think
even as a ceo even i have a cro who is
responsible from the growth i'm running
a growth meetings bi-weekly and going
through the all sales pipeline metrics
to be able to understand what is wrong
what is going what's going right what's
not going right so we can figure out we
can predict this risk and then we can
correct it accordingly
so
that was the mistake five
let's talk about
mr sorry that was a mistake six let's
talk about the mistakes out
so mistake seven is about
lack of focus and expansion function
i was listening one of the sustainer
podcasts uh when i was when i was just
you know cycling but because that's the
only time i can listen podcasts
otherwise you know we are all working in
front of our competitor compete
computers
and
while doing so
uh i heard something very like you know
i think uh strong
especially in that type of economic
times or macroeconomic environment
expansion or retention is the new
acquisition
that's 100 correct
because always acquiring a new customer
is more costly than selling to an
existing one
so that's why expansion function is very
important to take care of
and you might have different strategies
around this for example we have separate
expansion managers we also include
customer success managers for this
expansion you know pipeline or
generating pipeline
however at the end of today we all know
that it's a never-ending question and
never-ending story between customers
success and sales people whether
expansion function should be should
belong to customer success or sales
by the way i'm really curious about the
also practices for us by the way our
sales function is responsible from the
expansion
revenue
and by the way according to numbers
ideally your expansion revenues should
consist at least like 30 percent of your
new acquisition revenue
but before talking about the mistake of
lack of focus on expansion function
i would like to run a quick survey if
you would allow me
how many of the of you people actually
give they gave the responsibility for
expansion to their customer success team
valve more than i expect
how many of you guys actually give this
responsible to sales team
wow customer success is actually higher
than the sales
so very important i think observation
i think it's now shifting a little bit
more on the customer success part
because they are engaged with the
customer more and they can maybe sell
the customer more for us still on the
same side but
wherever it is
the biggest mistake
would be
lack of focus on this function expansion
function again retention and expansion
is the new vacancy new acquisition so
this is why actually
we should be focusing pretty much on
that and who should own it you should
decide it according to dynamics of your
business
but
it is going to highly affect the mr
because most of the time the length of
the sale cycles are long especially if
you are doing enterprise sales
and you should be able to decide on that
whether the expansion cycle should be
less than and it should be less than the
normal sales cycle and you should be
pretty much knowledgeable about which
products to sell and you should be again
pretty much knowledgeable and decisive
about
this
whether you'll have strong expansion
products that you can upsell
insider is a sequoia back company and
when we are doing when we are and we
have also completed our cities drought
very recently most of the investors also
for a sales business check the same
answers
by asking the same question how many
products you have for your upsell and
most of the companies which failed in
sales as far as i observed
they are actually lack of expansion
products so apart from your main product
you should have have this
other expansion products that you can
upsell you can sell to more sell more to
your existing customers
and you don't have to just give this
responsible to one department i believe
they they can be both involved in the
process by also encouraging them with
bonuses
mistake eight
week packaging of the products most of
the time people think that product is
the key differentiation people of course
that's the differentiation itself but
packaging can be a interesting type of
differentiation because you need to
first understand the needy of your
customers
and you can create the right packaging
for them
and most of the time you don't have to
land with your whole product stack
don't forget that landing with a
specific product
and expanding in time
especially if there is a competition is
going to be a pretty much right strategy
which is also inside a strategy at the
moment we land we don't have the fantasy
of selling our products at the same time
just in one time we land with a specific
product
and we expand in time it doesn't have to
be a specific product by the way it can
be a it can be a you know packaging that
combines couple of other products
depending on the needs of the customers
so
how you package your products how you
sell them
are the most important indicators also
both new acquisition and also expansion
opportunities
and
the rule can be counted as london expand
a strategy works for insider for the
last couple of years
and
if you don't think about it then you
might be mistaken
mistake nine
avoiding pocs
i remember one of two very early sayings
of mark zuckerberg
in facebook he said that titles are free
just give them
i'm not going to say the same thing for
pocs they are not free for sure
there we have a lot of cost during the
poc processes but
please let your customers to taste your
product
don't avoid to give pocs
because
they initiate the you know
selling they initiate for them to
understand what is the real value that
you can really create with your product
so let them understand the value of
course please put a limitation to your
poc it doesn't have to you know last for
months and months for example at insider
we are doing three months of poc
and it's a paid poc by the way we don't
give it like for free because if it's
going to be free it's like a free gym
membership if it's going to be free you
will never go there right
so three months paid poc if they are
going to see the value and of course you
have a trust in your product because if
you have it then they will see the value
and then we have almost like 80 percent
of the conversion rate for our pocs to
any person generally fails because of
you know other technical reasons and
pretty much external reasons
and
after
talking about the pocs
and after letting them taste your
product and really understand the value
let's talk about the mistake 10
you might assume that it's the last
mistake actually there's a long list of
mine but i just try to put like 10 of
them together today and i'm going to
have a one bonus one
before talking about this bonus one
let's talk about the mistake 10.
not having pricing for organic growth
what does it mean
it's a very cliche saying but at the
same time i think it's a very still very
impactful thing i want us to grow all
together so same logic works for your
customers you want to make the you might
make them feel like you grow together so
that's why
trying to find a parameter
which is going to be mutual to your
product and your clients or clients use
of your products once you do that
you will see that and they will feel
that it's going to be mutually
beneficial
and it should be visible to all parties
at the same time it means that
when they are going to make more value
through your product by the use of your
product then they are going to have like
better metrics then you will help them
to you know
you will have to for the year growth to
reach in their growth targets and you
will have the same so having this sense
of you know um
growth growth together then they are
going to be i think much more
satisfied by what they do what they do
together and then you they are going to
start to see you as your strategic
partners not only something they
purchased
so
bonus mistake
how many of you guys has read the book
amazon working backwards
really
okay
um
so
there are two ways for founders to learn
to understanding things to discover
and the first one is
learning through from others
we talk to each other we talk to other
ceos and we learn from their mistakes
their journeys and
this sharing actually helps us to
understand
what was the journey looks like for them
and what they have faced the second type
of learning is all of course reading
once you have time
we should try to read a lot of books
because they have also some real time
stories or real stories that you can
learn from by the way
one of the other mistakes that you can
do when you are reading
never ever read a book from
someone who who hasn't been or written
by someone who has been an entrepreneur
before
because an entrepreneur can be actually
precisely understood by another
entrepreneur so management books i don't
like them if there's like a real story
there i read them and one of them is
amazon working backwards and in this
book
i definitely by the way suggest you to
read it
you can see it may you can see a concept
called input and output metrics and most
of the time
just like the 4k security and mrr or
number of leads and mri people are
pretty much concentrate on the output
metrics but what causes the output
matrix input metrics at the end of a so
the number of certain activities are not
directly correlated to
results that you will get it so instead
of just focusing on results you should
be also pretty much focused on the input
you should be able to try to find the
activities which are going to bring you
or which are going to help you to reach
output
or results themselves so you should be
more concentrated on that
in order to do so
and i would like to read that as it is
before you can improve any system
you must understand how the input
affects the outputs of the system
you must be able to change the inputs
and possible system if needed
in order to achieve the desired results
this will require a sustained effort
constant constancy of purpose and an
environment where continued improvement
is the operating philosophy and it's
pretty much similar for the whole sales
funnel right in the sales funnel if you
are just focused on the output metric
then it work it doesn't work you need to
go to the every single item every single
pad in the sales funnel try to optimize
them then mri will improve automatically
so that was also the last and the bonus
mistake but
before ending up
the whole you know presentation and the
mistake themselves i would like to give
you a quick summary
let's remember them all together
well mistake one
not accepted that you are a mistake and
be careful about it
mistake two
hiding with urgency please do all
references checks of your sales
representatives by yourself
if they can't sell to you they can sell
also your products
mistake three hiring non-competitive
sales representative
selling in a well-established company or
structure is relatively easier than
selling a scale-up or startup company
don't hire those guys they can't sell
your product
lack of enablement if you leave them
alone without any enabled function then
it doesn't work
and don't forget that your
representatives reps are not iron man
so you should be pretty much
knowledgeable about how to support them
never ever lose control on your sales
pipeline
and let go focus on expansion function
might kill your company by taking the
account that selling to an existing
customer is always like less costly
even especially very important those
times
and weak packaging of your product
without understanding need of your
customers
as well as avoiding pocs which might
prevent for your clients to understand
the real value of your products
and organic pricing for organic growth
letting them to feel like you you
actually win together
might cause
those mistakes
which may not help you to build a very
strong sales organization and at the end
of the day yes it's a sales game
yes it's a um you know a focus game but
at the end of today it's a metric game
sales is sometimes more matrix than like
only
stories
so
as a bonus mistake don't also forget
that you should be taking the account to
input metrics not only to output metrics
and even in this fluctuating times
please don't forget that
sales fixes everything
anything and everything
if you are google good at sales if you
are selling
if the investors if you are bored
you'll see that you are growing you are
selling and of course if you are
retaining your customers
it fixes everything
but if you can't sell
then you have a problem
and wherever we go whatever we do but
which presentation we make it doesn't
matter at the end of today even in this
again macro economic environment where
people are starting to look for also
profitability or capital efficiency
still ladies and gentlemen
gross is the kink thank you very much
for listening me
[Music]
you